---
title: "Wicher book 1: The Last Wish"
categories:
  - book
---

> I am here to accomplish my task. Have you ever heard of a sense of responsibility and plain honesty? About professional ethics?

*The Witcher*

> It's my problem, Geralt, my life and my punishment. I've learned to put up with it. I've got used to it. If it gets worse, I'll get used to that too. And if it gets far worse, don't look for anybody. Come here yourself and put an end to it. As a witcher. Take care, Geralt.
> 

*A Grain of Truth*

> Renfri laughed hoarsely. "It doesn't affect me. Only the sword will."
> 
> "Renfri," he repeated. "Go. If we cross blades, I- I won't be able-"
> 
> "I know," she said. "But I, I can't do anything else. I just can't. We are what we are, you and I."
> 

*The Lesser Evil*

> "... As for you, you have a choice. You can be forced to act by my command -- I don't wish to dwell on the consequences of disobedience, although obedience will be generously rewarded -- or you can render me a paid service. Note that I didn't say 'I can buy you,' because I've decided not to offend your witcher's pride. There's a huge difference, isn't there?"
> 
> "The magnitude of this difference has somehow escaped my notice."
> 
> "Then pay greater attention. The difference, my dear witcher, is that one who is bought is paid according to the buyer's whim, whereas one who renders a service sets his own price. Is that clear?"
> 
> "To a certain extent. Let's say, then, that I choose to serve. Surely I should know what that entails?"
> 
> "No. Only a command has to be specific and explicit. A paid service is different. I'm interested in the results, nothing more. How you achieve it is your business."
> 

*A Question of Price*
