---
title: "Dragon Age: Inquisition"
categories:
  - game
---

> Varric (V): "What's with you and the doom stuff? Are you always this cheery or is the hole in the sky getting to you?"
> 
> Solas (S): "I've no idea what you mean."
> 
> V: All the "fallen empire" crap you go on about. What's so great about empires anyway?
> So we lost the Deep Roads, and Orzammar is too proud to ask for help. So what? We're not Orzammar and we're not our empire. 
> There are tens of thousands of us living up here in the sunlight now, and it's not that bad. Life goes on. It's just different than it used to be.
> 
> S: And you have no concept of what that difference cost you.
> 
> V: I know what it didn't cost me. I'm still here, even after all those thaigs fell.
> 
> S: You truly are content to sit in the sun, never wondering what you could've been, never fighting back.
> 
> V: Ha, you've got it all wrong, Chuckles. This is fighting back.
> 
> S: How does passively accepting your fate constitute a fight?
> 
> V: In that story of yours -- the fisherman watching the stars, dying alone. You thought he gave up, right?
> 
> S: Yes.
> 
> V: But he went on living. He lost everyone, but he still got up every morning. He made a life, even if it was alone.
> That's the world. Everything you build, it tears down. Everything you've got, it takes. And it's gone forever.
> The only choices you get are to lie down and die or keep going. He kept going. That's as close to beating the world as anyone gets.
> 
> S: Well said. Perhaps I was mistaken.
> 

